# CIS5850 - Communication and Information Services
Expanded Course Description
  This course focuses on the theoretical and practical aspects of computer communications and networking. Communication Theory, Network    Architectures and Applications, Internet Infrastructure and Security, Cloud Computing Applications, Wireless and Mobile Communications, Peer-to-peer Networks, Client-server Networks and Cloud Computing Architectures will be the major topics covered in the class. The theoretical concepts of computer communications and networks will form an important and integral part of the course. It will be supplemented by practical examples of configuring a server and a selected set of services. These services include the web service, the media streaming service and network services. As the course evolves more topics on cloud services will be added.  
  Overall, the course will be an advanced version of the data communications course and networking course offered at the undergraduate level. The content will be scaled to include new developments in the networking and communication fields. The emerging field of cloud computing will be discussed with possible hand-on exercises on creating virtual machines and services.  
  In terms of the weekly coverage, the first half of the semester will focus on theoretical concepts. Communications protocols and the TCP/IP suite of protocols will feature prominently while covering the theory. The second half of the semester will mostly be concerned with the actual hands-on exercises designed to configure a client-server network both locally and in the cloud. The exercises would include demonstrations and hands-on lab sessions that explore both wired and wireless communications as they related to the Windows operating system. In addition, the theory and application of secured communications will be covered with a demonstration showing the configuration of a hardware firewall. 
